listening -promotes speaking
entire conversation should not be constructed in mind, just think about the beginning

amputee-- who has his leg amputated
glasses,spectacles-considered plural

singular verb- have s

a group of words established by usage as having a meaning not deducible from those of the individual words (e.g. over the moon, see the light ).
law and order, slow and steady-idioms

mumble-no coherence and clarity
shout-has emotion
yell-no emotion

Petrichor is the term coined by Australian scientists in 1964 to describe the unique, earthy smell associated with rain.
pessimistic-tending to see the worst aspect of things or believe that the worst will happen.

present continuous- when in dynamic situation, like in fourth year and avout to get a job- i am studying at iit delhi.

see job profile,description,write in first person. 200>write>100
documentary-optional


sous de chef--
draft--

today i am going to expose you all to a typical daily routine of a sous de chef, such as me. my working day starts at around 9 in the morning. 
my first task of the day is mostly inventory work. i order the ingredients required for the ongoing day the night before, thus ensuring they arrive on time 
in the morning and are fresh. i am responsible for counting the produce items and  checking their quality. then i have to place them and label them appropriately.

 
the bulk of my morning usually goes in supervising the mise en place. This French term, meaning "everything in its place", refers to extensive preparation 
of ingredients. it generally involves cleaning and cutting vegetables, preparing sauces and portioning cuts of meat.
after the mise en place and before the lunch service begins, we have our lunch. this is the time when i and other chefs get to try out new dishes.
before the service begins, we have a briefing to ensure that the  front of house and kitchen staff are across everything. for me, this is the perfect time to 
acquaint them with the daily specials, and get to know  about customer inquiries. during the service, i supervise the junior chefs in the cooking and plating of the dishes.
i also assist the areas of the  team that are currently lagging behind.  

after the lunch service, all of us get prepared for the busiest time of the day, the dinner service. i again overlook and assist in the post-service cleaning,
and the mise de place. i also delegate the key menu items during this time to the junior chefs. our service ends at around 10.30 pm. after the end of service
i spend my time placing orders for the next day and reviewing the menu for the next day. thus, this is my daily routine as a sous de chef.


why narrator thought about the girl--

mesmerized by her dark,troubled eyes. searching and eloquent eyes. shiny black hair, pale skin. 
stood looking at each other for a long time. earlier didnt want basket but upon her saying, he bought one. as the train sped away , 
she disappeared into the forests, standing still and smiling. could not forget the girl and her dark smouldering eyes. when making return journey
pleased that they remembered each other. held her hand, didnt say anything. said he has to go to delhi, she doesnt have to go anywhere. said will come back and
 she nodded. had to wrench his hand.she was a bright living thing . wanted to tell her about his feelings when again met her, disappointed when didnt find her.
he felt a tenderness and responsibility towards her.felt restless and ill at ease. stolen his heart with her dark impatient eyes.afraid of discovering what had 
happened to the girl. prefers to keep hoping and drraming to see her again, but doesnt get off the train as it may spoil his game.

the narrator was mesmerized when he saw the girl's dark troubled eyes for the first time and couldn't get his eyes off of her. When the train left the 
station, he could not forget her dark smouldering eyes. this shows how much he had started admiring her , even though they had met just for a few moments.
He felt a tenderness and responsibility towards her even though he barely knew her. he wanted to tell her his feelings for her, but couldn't do so when he 
saw that she had disappeared.Still he preferred to keep hoping and dreaming that one day he will find her again at the station, smiling at him. It is evident 
that she stole his heart with her dark impatient eyes. 


task 5--
5A-
1. offer, might be
2. go, may put
3. buy,should check

1. two,if,main
2.can,either
3. present
4. should,will
5B-
1.use, hide
2.keep, have
3.buys, check
4.ignore, receives

task 6--
1. If you receive phishing emails saying that you have won a prize of a large amount of money, they are likely to be fake.
2. If you use public Wi-fi, then your data might be vulnerable to cyber criminals.
3. If you see that pictures on a website are blurred, then the website might be fake.
4. If you make an online payment to a website, then you must use a credit card as it gives protection in case of money loss.
5. You must keep your banking passwords secret, if you use online banking for all your transactions .

https://forms.gle/3UYUena7U9gGcdeJ6 WEEK7









































She wasn't sympathetic,  she just laughed when I told her my problems.
George is so arrogant, he has no respect for other people
He is so dull he sends everyone to sleep.
Don't be so greedy you've already eaten enough.
She's a shy person and never goes to parties.
It isn't fair to jump the queue like that.
You have to be sensitive to write poetry.
Suspicious people never believe what you said.
Ann is really bright. She can read and she's only 3 years old.
Try to be brave, buddy. This is going to hurt a little.
She is incredibly mean, she never buys anyone a coffee.

lone wolf -someone who prefers their own company and doesn’t like to socialise
wallflower-a person feels shy, awkward, or excluded
social butterfly-an extroverted person who loves to socialize
mover and a shaker--an active person who helps their company, organization, or group make
                    progress
dark horse-someone who has greater ability than what they show or others are aware of
man of his word-a person you can trust because they tell the truth and keep promises
busybody--a person who constantly wants to know about or interfere in the details of other
           people’s lives
couch potato-a lazy person who spends a lot of time sitting down or lying down
know-it-all--a person who thinks they know everything, and that their opinions and ideas
            are the best
wet blanket-a person who discourages or prevents other people from having fun, through
           their actions or their negative attitudes
knight in shining armor--a person who behaves in a very brave way
smart cookie--a clever person who makes good decisions




TASK-4
mountain
firm and snow capped
standing mighty and protecting
forever
Himalayas


TASK-5
sun
vibrant,warm
shining,reassuring,enlivening
an orb of power
light

TASK-6
MY ANECDOTE OF LIFE
I am teachable and peaceful
I hear music of the voice of people
I see endless opportunities
I want mastery

I am teachable and peaceful

I try to develop myself
I feel overwhelmed
I worry that i won't live up to myself

I am teachable and peaceful

I believe in self support
I say balance is the essence of life
I wonder, if there are universes beyond my own

I am teachable and peaceful














